---
layout: single
title: An Hour a Day - July 2022 Week 3
categories: 
parlinks: []
comments : true
_date : July 2022, Week 3
permalink : /an-hour-a-day/jul2022-w3/
---
<div id="toc">
Contents
</div>
* TOC
{:toc}
----------

### July 18, 2022
I studied suffix arrays, LCP arrays and Manber-Myers algorithm, by MIT 6.851 lecture and other sources.

Suffix arrays are much simpler than suffix trees, both conceptually and in implementation. However it retains considerable functionalities, solving otherwise difficult problems on strings in a quite elegant manner. 

### July 19, 2022
I read [Order Preserving Matching (Kim et al, Theoretical Computer Science 2014)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1302.4064). While the problem has variety of natural applications, yet the algorithm itself is quite elegant and simple extension of well-known KMP algorithm. Considering that in most usecases $n$ (data size) is much larger than $m$ (pattern size), the performance in the realm of $O(n)$ is exceptionally good. 

### July 20, 2022
I implemented $O(n + m \log m)$ algorithm for order preserving pattern matching problem myself.

This algorithm have been showcased in competitive programming contests, even multiple times. Most recent one is the ICPC Korea regional 2021, which [my implementation](http://boj.kr/e3b198086ae14674891df72a3c860a5e) solves. This problem allows duplicates in the pattern and data, but treatment of duplicates isn't much of a hassle.

### July 21, 2022 
Combinatorial optimization, section 0.3-0.4. I learned simplex algorithm for solving linear programs.

### July 23, 2022
UCPC 2022 (competitive programming contest). We (team **SGD**) achieved 26th place, which is slightly below what we had expected - we struggled on implementing some problems :(

Writeup (and frankly, post-mortem) will appear in my blog. 