---
layout: single
title: An Hour a Day - August 2022
categories: 
parlinks: []
comments : true
_date : August 2022
permalink : /an-hour-a-day/2022-08/
---

##### July 25, 2022 - Aug 04, 2022
Wasn't able to do anything due to paper revision period :( 

##### Aug 06, 2022
- I participated in SCPC (Samsung Collegiate Programming Contest) 2nd round, which is a 12-hour marathon competitive programming contest. Looking forward for the onsite finals!
- Problems were very interesting, but 12-hour long contest is horrendously exhausting and implementations were tough.

##### Aug 07, 2022
- Problem-solving session with Dlwocks31, Nevivurn and Stet-stet. 
 
##### Aug 08, 2022
- Combinatorial optimization, section 1.1-1.2. Definition of matroids, independent sets and circuits. 
- Mathematical structures defined as family of subsets are always somewhat intimidating whenever we learn the first time. (topology - open sets, $\sigma$-algebra - measurable sets...) But IMO they are mathematically elegant after the stage of appreciation. 

##### Aug 09, 2022
- Combinatorial optimization, section 1.3-1.4. Greedy algorithms and representation of matroid.
- Matroid structure $\iff$ Greedy algorithm works well - beautiful characterization :) 

##### Aug 10, 2022
- Combinatorial optimization, section 1.5-1.6. Rank properties and matroid duality. 

##### Aug 11, 2022
- Combinatorial optimization, section 1.7. Matroid polytopes.

##### Aug 12, 2022
- Combinatorial optimization, section 2. Shortest-path algorithms 
  - Dijkstra, Bellman-Ford and Floyd-Warshall algorithm
  - Interesting take from Lee's textbook : Dijkstra algorithm is not usually considered a dynamic programming algorithm, while Bellman-Ford is. However, dynamically managing "permanently labeled" vertices look much more *dynamic*. :smile:
